---
layout: post
title:  "Be A Man Already"
date:   2014-01-03
category: personal
---

When I was young I couldn't wait to grow up so everyone would finally listen to what I have to say. I dreamed of the day that I would be the boss, I would be the one in control of every situation. I would be important. I can honestly say that at the age of 33 I've finally realized that idea was in fact nothing more than a dream. I am none of those things today because I was never shown how to be any of them. Most importantly I was never shown how to be a man. Because this was never show to me I must learn it on my own. It's my responsibility as a husband and father that I must learn how to be a man. In order to learn though I first have to define it.

A man is strong. There is an inherent strength to being a man. Nature has endowed us with the biology to build muscle and preform great feats, but strength is more than just muscle. Strength is also intellect. It is the ability to feel comfortable in any situation because you know you are strong enough to deal with not only the physical but the mental tasks that may arise. Strength is emotional. For my whole life I've been told by society that I shouldn't cry, that I have to be a rock of emotion and that by crying I would show weakness. I believe that is exactly wrong. The ability to cry shows an emotional strength and proves that you are strong. Strength is the ability to face your fears and show them that they do not control you. Fear is a perfectly normal emotion and should not be cased out. Fear is the saftey valve of life, it is the emotional device that lets us know we've crossed the line and should step back before bad things happen. If you do not control fear, however, it will control you. You will become fearful of everything and that is where you must be strongest, against your fears.

A man is kind. I man helps those around him. He does not look upon weakness as a negative thing that must be won over. He  opened possibilities for those that can not do it themselves. Kindness is helpfulness. The idea of a dog-eat-dog world is a fabrication of the unstrong to make themselves feel better and give themselves a false sense of strength. Kindness is difficult and scary because it requires a level of openess, a baring of the soul to show the gentler side. 

A man is loving. Emotions are a reocurring trend here and that is because men tend to lack them in significant quantaties. The ability to Love is probably one of the hardest emotions for any man. This is because most men have never truly been show how to love. They infer the meaning from what society tell them and think they know exactly what love is. To many love is a mushy Hollywood movie. Sure that movie might bake you cry because it's emotional but I can honestly say that I have never seen a movie that was able to truely show me what love is. Love is something that takes a lifetime of effort to understand. Love is a master blacksmith toaling away and the forge and anvil for his entire life to make a simple tool, but to make it perfect in every way. The crucse of that is the blacksmith that does that has probably abandoned his family to focus on his trade. He may demonstrate love to his skill but he does not understand love because he has ignored those that need him most. 

A man is pateint. The skills of strength, kindness, and loving take a lifetime to perfect. Patience must be excersiced to keep you pursuing these skills. Without patience the endevore to perfect what it means to be a man will fall to the way side. This is where most men fail on the journey. They reach a point that they think it must be good enough, I must have finally reach a point that I can declare myself a man and quit working on it. That idea is a lie. It is a lie to yourself and a lie to those around you. You never quite trying to be a man, because the day you do is the day you've failed.

I for one chose to be a man, and I will strive to pursue that title until the day I leave this world. I will never allow myself or anyone to prevent me from being the best man I can be at all time. This will be difficult and I know the hardest person to appease will be myself, but I feel I must do this. I don't like the person I am now and that has to change. I promise, today, that it will.